= ruby-mpfr

* http://rubyforge.org/projects/ruby-mpfr/
* http://gemcutter.org/gems/ruby-mpfr/

== Description:

ruby-mpfr is a library to use MPFR[http://www.mpfr.org/] which is a C library for
multiple-precision floating-point computations.
ruby-mpfr also includes Matrix class of MPFR; MPFR::Matrix, MPFR::SquareMatrix,
MPFR::ColumnVector, and MPFR::RowVector.

* History[link:History_txt.html]
* {Examples of Usage}[link:Example_rdoc.html]

== Notice:

* Many methods have not been tested sufficiently.
* Documentation is not complete.

== Requirements:

* Ruby[http://www.ruby-lang.org/] 1.9.1 or later
* MPFR[http://www.mpfr.org/] 2.4.1 or later

For Ubuntu 9.10, we can install MPFR with the following command.
 $ sudo apt-get install libmpfr-dev

== Install:
The package of rubygems of ruby-mpfr is provided.
You can install ruby-mpfr with the following command
in the system satisfying the above requirements.
 
 $ sudo gem install ruby-mpfr

== Related Software:
These two gem packages uses ruby-mpfr.

* ruby-mpc[http://gemcutter.org/gems/ruby-mpc/]: the arithmetic of complex numbers with multiprecision
* ruby-mpfi[http://gemcutter.org/gems/ruby-mpfi/]: the interval arithmetic with multiprecision

The following is an another multiple precision library which uses GMP.
* http://gemcutter.org/gems/gmp

== License:

ruby-mpfr
Copyright (C) 2009 Takayuki YAMAGUCHI

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free 
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version. 

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more
details. 

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
